rnnrscu. vii

sons to be one and the same. The labor oi eol·
lecting these. notes hasbeen great, the hope ol
their usefulness the only encouragement.

This is not the place to disouss the relative
meritos the chronology ol Varro ond Cato, the
latter ol whom fixes the foundation ol the city
the 21st April, 751, or the first year of the seventh
Olympiad Itis sufficient to state that the iorrner
has been followed, which fixos the building ol
Rome the tter April (u d. xi. Kal. Msjas)‚ 753
before the Christian era, or the third year of the
sixth Olympiad. As ujustification ol this por·
tion ol the notes, the editor would appesl to the
opinion of Cicero himself: Haec si miuus opta
videntur huic sermoni, Brute, Attico assigno, qui
ute inflammavit studio illustrium homiuum ustutss
et temporo persequendi. Ego vero, iuquit Brutos,
st delector istu quari uuuotutious temporum, st ud
id, quod instituisti, oratorum genero distinguere
aetatibus, istam diligentium esse accommodatum
puto.

Difficulties of expression and construction have
been notioed and explained so far only as the

student may require aid beyond that surnished

by a good grammar and dict-ionary, which latter
b

 

